Skoda Kodiaq Pros

• A True "Value-Luxury" SUV! Classy styling, solid build & superb quality
• Cabin offers very good space, is high on practicality and offers lots of intelligent features
• Impressive kit (Canton 14-speaker ICE, panoramic sunroof, handsfree tailgate, 360-degree camera, tablet holders, auto parking, seat massaging...)
• 2.0L turbo-petrol engine mated to a smooth & quick 7-speed DSG automatic offers enjoyable performance at all speeds
• Excellent high speed stability coupled with safe handling & a sorted ride
• Massive boot with the 3rd seat row down. Boot is useable even with the 3rd seat up
• AWD will get the tourers out of tricky situations. Adventure travellers will love it
• 5-star safety rating & equipment (9 airbags + a host of electronic aids)

Skoda Kodiaq Cons

• Styling is classy & understated. Those desiring a butch, tough SUV should look elsewhere
• Diesel option is not available. Heavy users will miss the lower running costs. Diesels are still very popular amongst large SUVs in India
• Single digit fuel economy of the turbo-petrol AT in the city. Drops drastically if you drive aggressively
• We feel that the Sportline variant should’ve been offered with the ventilated seats, 360-degree camera & other L&K features
• 3rd row ingress & egress is difficult. Seats are strictly for children
• The DCC (adjustable dampers for comfort & sport modes) has been deleted!!! No ADAS suite for the Kodiaq either
• Skoda’s patchy long-term reliability track record


Introduction

The Kodiaq has been the flagship SUV in Skoda's global portfolio. It has also been one of Skoda's largest-selling models worldwide. In India, 1st-gen Kodiaq was considered a cost-effective alternative to SUVs from the three German luxury car manufacturers - Audi, BMW and Mercedes-Benz as it offered a premium car experience at a considerably lower price. This made it an important product not just for the company but also for buyers.

With the 1st-gen Kodiaq having reached the end of its production run, Skoda decided to bring the 2nd-gen car to India this year. The company showcased the model at the Auto Expo earlier this year. Considering the achievements of the outgoing car, the new one has big shoes to fill.

Globally, the 2nd-gen Kodiaq went on sale in October 2023. It is based on the VW MQB Evo, which it shares with the Superb and Volkswagen Tiguan, among other cars of the Volkswagen group.

Skoda Kodiaq Price & Brochure

The 2025 Kodiaq is available with a 2.0L TSI petrol engine and a 7-speed DSG automatic transmission in Sportline and Selection L&K (Laurin & Klement) variants priced at Rs. 46.89 lakhs and Rs. 48.69 lakhs (ex-showroom) respectively. The Kodiaq will be assembled at its Aurangabad plant and use some locally sourced parts
Design & Styling

The 2nd-gen Kodiaq's styling is more rounded than the outgoing car's. The design looks mature, understated and timeless. It is equipped with LED headlamps, an octagonal radiator grille with a horizontal light strip, LED DRLs that double up as turn indicators, C-shaped LED tail-lamps with a red strip connecting the two clusters, black cladding around the wheel arches and on the running board, silver roof rails, sharkfin antenna, 18-inch alloy wheels and a D-pillar finished in dark chrome.

The new Kodiaq measures 4,758 mm in length, 1,864 mm in width and 1,679 mm in height. This makes it 59 mm longer than the outgoing car. Its wheelbase, however, measures 2,791 mm, which is identical to its predecessor.

The Kodiaq is available in a total of 7 monotone colours – Bronx Gold Metallic, Velvet Red Metallic, Graphite Grey Metallic, Moon White Metallic, Steel Grey Metallic, Race Blue Metallic and Magic Black Metallic (our test car). The Bronx Gold Metallic and Steel Grey shades are exclusive to the Selection L&K and Sportline variants, respectively.

Build Quality, Fit & Finish

The build quality is what one would expect of a European premium car. The doors have a good deal of heft and shut with a satisfying thud. The bonnet and tailgate are on the heavier side too. The kerb weight of the Kodiaq is 1,820-1825 kg. There are no uneven panel gaps to be found on the car, and there is barely any flex when you try to press the metal panels with your thumb. Overall, the car feels solid and well put together.

The fit & finish and paint job are also impressive.

Wheels & Tyres

In India, the Kodiaq gets a set of 18-inch alloy wheels shod with 235/55 section tyres. The Selection L&K comes with Mazeno wheels with aero trims, while the Sportline gets Soira wheels. We didn't like the design of the former. The spare is a 145/85 R18 space saver.

Ground Clearance

Skoda hasn’t specified the unladen ground clearance of the Kodiaq. The laden ground clearance is rated at 155 mm though. It appears to be more than adequate for Indian conditions. Our test car had no issues tackling some tall speed breakers.

Standard & Extended Warranty

The Kodiaq comes with a standard warranty of 5 years / 1,25,000 km. You can extend the warranty up to 6 years, and we highly recommend that you do so. Anytime warranty up to the 8th year is available as well. Besides, you also get a 6-year anti-corrosion warranty and a 3-year paint warranty.

Maintenance

Skoda is offering a complimentary 1-year Super Care package (SMP) for the Kodiaq. A 4-year Super Care package can be bought on top for 1+4 years. 10 years of roadside assistance (RSA) is provided as standard.

Safety

Safety has become paramount these days and a lot of people are basing their buying decisions on the safety of a car. The 2nd-gen Kodiaq has received a 5-star crash test rating from Euro NCAP.

In terms of features, the car gets 9 airbags, ABS with EBD, electronic stability control, multi-collision brake, hydraulic brake assist, rain brake support, hill start assist, hill descent control, advanced driver attention & drowsiness monitor, electronic differential lock, traction control, parking sensors, 360-degree camera, intelligent park assist, TPMS, ISOFIX child seat anchors and more. However, ADAS features that are available in cars from lower segments, have not been provided in the Kodiaq.
Cabin Design & Quality

The Selection L&K variant gets a dual-tone Cognac leather and black theme with chrome and dark chrome elements. Soft touch material has been used in multiple places. The dashboard is black with Cognac leather and silver inserts. The two-spoke steering wheel is wrapped in leather as well and has dark chrome detailing and a piano black insert with a Laurin & Klement badge. Skoda claims that it has used a variety of eco-friendly materials like we have seen in most global Skoda cars. The quality of materials and plastics used is very good. The switches feel durable and are nice to operate.

Space & Comfort

Ingress and egress are easy at the front and rear as the Kodiaq's roof is high, and the floor is not as high as traditional body-on-frame SUVs. The cabin width is also very healthy, and in the front, you do not sit close to the front passenger.

The Kodiaq comes with Ergo seats in the front and are draped in Cognac leather upholstery. They’re broad and supportive and come with ventilation, heating and pneumatic massage functions (8 programs). Both seats get 12-way electric adjustment, memory settings and thigh support extenders. The cushioning is on point and should be comfortable over long drives.

Driving Position & Ergonomics

As mentioned earlier, the driver seat gets 12-way adjustment (with 4-way lumbar adjustment and memory function) and has a good travel range too. The steering is adjustable for height and reach, which means finding a comfortable driving position is easy. At 5'10", with my slightly laid-back driving position, I could get comfortable quite easily. From the driver's seat, you get a clear view of the road ahead. Frontal and side visibility is good, but the rear visibility isn’t great due to the rear headrests and thick D-pillars blocking the view. You will have to depend on the rearview camera while reversing.

Other controls like the steering-mounted buttons, stalks, A/C controls, etc. are well within reach. We will say that ergonomically, the Kodiaq is well sorted.

Cabin Storage

There’s a good amount of storage for the front passengers. All doorpads can hold a 1.5-litre bottle and some other stuff. An umbrella is stowed in the driver’s door. The glovebox is medium sized, and you also get a storage compartment above it. You get 2 cupholders with a plastic trim above it. This trim can slide back and double up as 2 additional cupholders, so now you can keep 4 cups! There's more storage space in the centre console and a storage bin under the centre armrest. The front seatbacks have pockets as well as smartphone holders for rear passengers to use. There is also a removable storage compartment on the rear centre tunnel. Like most Skoda cars, there is a ticket clip on the windshield as well.

Air-Conditioning

The Kodiaq gets a 3-zone climate control system. Even on a hot and sultry April day in Mumbai, the cooling was good. The front seats are ventilated as well. Overall, we found no reason to complain about the cooling from the A/C unit. However, while A/C vents have been provided for the second-row seats, the third row does not get vents.

Another point to note is that Skoda has provided physical multifunctional rotary knobs for controlling the A/C and touchscreen, which are much more intuitive to use than the touch-type controls that we have seen on some cars in recent times.

Features

Unique & Noteworthy Features

Skoda has loaded the Kodiaq with most of the features that you can think of. Noteworthy features include keyless entry & go, a 10.25-inch digital instrument cluster, a 3-zone climate control system, a 2-spoke leather-wrapped steering wheel with tilt and telescopic adjustment, paddle shifters, drive modes, ambient lighting, ventilated first-row seats with massage and memory functions, Canton sound system, navigation, wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, telematics, acoustic windows for the first row, panoramic sunroof, sun blinds for the second-row windows, reclining and sliding second-row seats, doorpad waste bins, handsfree tailgate and a display cleaner for the touchscreen. Like the outgoing car, the driver's door comes with an umbrella inside it.

You also get two Type-C USB charging ports for the first and second row of seats, another Type-C port on the console behind the IRVM, ventilated wireless charging pad for two smartphones, glovebox illumination, auto-dimming IRVM, puddle lamps, auto LED headlamps, rain-sensing wipers and more. However, the glovebox is not cooled.

Audio System & Sound Quality

The Kodiaq gets a 12.9-inch touchscreen head-unit that is mated with a 725W 13-speaker + 1 subwoofer Canton sound system. Most users will find the audio quality impressive. The system allows the user to adjust several settings. The touchscreen gets navigation and wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity. In terms of usability, it is very responsive and doesn't lag. Even the display is crisp. Skoda has provided a display cleaner for the touchscreen to remove smudges and fingerprints. This display cleaner is stored in the centre console.

You can also use the MySkoda Plus smartphone app to access telematics, car maintenance records and car-related assistance.

Rear Passengers
Rear Seat Comfort & Space

Ingress & egress into the second row is very easy. The doors open wide, the roof is high and the floor is not as high as some body-on-frame SUVs. One simply walks in or out of the car. Once inside, there is plenty of legroom and headroom available for even tall occupants. The seats can be reclined and slid, which means one can be very comfortable.

The second-row seats come with adjustable headrests and 3-point seatbelts for all 3 passengers. The rear bench has backrests split in a 40:20:40 ratio. It can accommodate 3 people with ease due to the width of the Kodiaq. The base has contours to hold you in place. The middle seat passenger gets a slightly shorter seat base and a flat seatback (due to the foldable centre armrest). Additionally, sunblinds have been provided on both windows.

For storage, the second-row passengers get door pockets that can hold a 1.5-litre bottle each and more stuff, two cupholders on the centre armrest and bag hooks on the B-pillars. The front seatbacks come with large pockets and smartphone holders. Tablet holders have been installed behind both front headrests. To charge their gadgets, they can use the two Type-C USB ports provided below the climate control console. A/C vents have been provided at the end of the centre console, while cabin lamps and grab handles with inset bag hooks have been placed on the sides of the roof just above the doors.

To get into the third row is a tricky process. The second-row seats cannot be tumbled forward. The backrests need to be folded forward partially and the seat slid forward. One has to use the space between the two second-row seats and the wheel arch to get in or out of the third row. Alternatively, you can fold the second-row backrests down and climb over the seats. Neither of these methods is easy for adults. For larger people or the elderly, it is very difficult. The third-row seat is designed to take two occupants and comes with adjustable headrests and 3-point seatbelts. There is a good deal of headroom available, but one needs to slide the second-row seats forward to avail of any legroom. The seat is split in a 50:50 ratio. The third-row seats are placed lower than we would have liked, which results in a knees-up sitting position and no under-thigh support. While the third-row seats are acceptable for children, adults will find them uncomfortable.

Third-row occupants get two lights and a storage space on either side, there are no USB charging ports or A/C vents.

Boot Space

Even with all the seats in place, the Skoda Kodiaq has 281 litres of luggage space available. However, you can fold the third-row seats to liberate 786 litres of cargo space. With the second-row seats folded forward, you get a whopping 1,976 litres of boot space! The boot comes with bag hooks and storage spaces on both sides. A cover and cargo net have also been provided. The tailgate comes with hands-free operation.

At least for now, this 1,984cc turbo petrol engine mated to the 7-speed DSG automatic transmission is the only powertrain on offer in the 2025 Kodiaq. The combination is shared with the Volkswagen Tiguan R-Line, which was launched recently. What’s noteworthy is that Skoda has made its powerplant E20-compatible, while the Tiguan R-Line’s engine does not.

With 201 BHP & 320 Nm on tap, the engine is a strong performer. Torque is available from low revs, which makes the powerplant very tractable and enjoyable at all speeds. In the city, the engine's healthy bottom end helps you get around effortlessly. The throttle response is good, and there is no turbo lag. The engine never feels lethargic at low revs and there's always more than enough power on tap to accelerate or overtake quickly. In bumper-to-bumper traffic, just lift off the brake and the car can crawl forward at 8 km/h without any throttle input.

Drive with a light foot and the gearbox shifts up pretty quickly. It is eager to reach higher gears, and you will see it upshift under 2,000 rpm. You won't feel gearshifts, as the transition is very smooth. The Kodiaq's steering is light at city speeds, and the car doesn't feel as big as its dimensions suggest. All these traits, along with the sorted ergonomics and good all-around visibility, make the Kodiaq very easy to drive in the city.

Out on the highway is when things get even better. The Kodiaq is much more car-like to drive than body-on-frame SUVs. With the powerful and eager turbo petrol, you'll find yourself addicted to flooring the throttle whenever there's an empty stretch of road. Outright performance is very good and you’ll find yourself touching triple-digit speeds very quickly. The mid-range is strong, which makes overtaking very easy. The kickdown time in D mode isn’t the fastest, but it’s still quick. A faster response can be obtained in "Sport". With the accelerator floored, the engine revs to 6,000 rpm (start of the redline) before shifting up. We feel this rev limit is on the lower side for a petrol powerplant. What is great is that the engine sounds fantastic when revved hard.

In terms of cruisability, the Kodiaq can run at triple-digit speeds all day long effortlessly. The engine spins at a relaxed ~1,750 rpm at 100 km/h and ~2,000 rpm at 120 km/h. In summary, the 2.0 TSI is one of the most sorted motors out there. It feels comfortable at low & high revs and in the city as well as on the highway.

Like the outgoing car, the new Kodiaq uses a 7-speed DSG gearbox from the DQ381 family. Cruising around in D mode, one won't even notice the gears being shifted. They are damn smooth. The kickdown response time is quick and you will never feel that the gearbox is hunting for gears either. It's in the right ratio almost all the time. When you are in the mood to drive the car aggressively, engage 'Sport' mode. This puts the car in 'high alert' mode and its senses are heightened. The DSG holds onto gears longer before upshifting and you'll also notice that the gearbox is eager to downshift at the slightest of throttle inputs. People with a heavy right foot will love S mode for sure. However, in the city where the traffic is heavy, S mode can get jerky.

Paddle shifters have been provided. The response time is quick and they are fun to use on a twisty section of road. Tap the left paddle for a downshift and you'll notice the ECU blipping the throttle to match the revs, which is quite satisfying & addictive. There's a good amount of engine braking available as well.

The Kodiaq gets six driving modes to choose from – Eco, Normal, Sport, Offroad, Snow and Individual, which can be selected through the touchscreen. Each mode changes the engine's characteristics, gearbox shift points, air-con operation, steering weight etc.
• Normal Mode: This is the default mode. It provides a balance between fuel efficiency and performance.

• Eco mode: In this mode, the throttle response is duller. However, because the engine is powerful, Eco mode is still usable. The car doesn't feel sluggish and there is sufficient grunt on tap to keep you cruising at higher speeds. When it comes to quick overtaking, you will need Normal or Sport modes. In this mode, the climate control system doesn't work as hard as in the other modes. Still, it cools the cabin sufficiently.

• Sport mode: Engage Sport mode, the throttle response becomes sharper and the engine feels more responsive. The transmission holds on to gears longer and is eager to shift down at the press of the accelerator. This is the mode for when you want to have some fun, but for regular city driving, it can feel jerky.

• Individual mode: The driver can choose to adjust the individual parameters, such as the steering, air-conditioning, etc. according to his/her preferences.
• Offroad mode: This mode optimises the vehicle's systems for off-road driving. This mode is active up to 30 km/h and includes hill descent control.

• Snow: This should be engaged on icy or snow-covered roads. It provides better accelerator sensitivity in these conditions.

Unlike the outgoing car, the India-spec 2nd-gen Kodiaq does not get Dynamic Chassis Control. So, the suspension settings cannot be altered by the user.

The Kodiaq comes with a convenient 'auto hold' feature which owners will love in the city. While the vehicle is waiting at a traffic signal, the driver can lift his foot off the brake pedal and the vehicle will stay in place. No need to keep the brake pedal continuously pressed.

The Kodiaq comes with an all-wheel-drive system. Normally, power is sent to the front wheels only. If road conditions require more traction, it will send the necessary amount of torque to the rear wheels. While this system will work well in moderate conditions, do note that the Kodiaq is not a proper offroader like the Toyota Fortuner.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)

As you would expect in a premium SUV like this, refinement levels are overall satisfactory. There is a slight body shake felt on start-up and shutdown. On idle, there is a slight buzz felt on the centre armrest. The engine idles softly and you'd barely notice it while driving around sedately. Revv the 2.0 TSI and a nice, sporty note is audible in the cabin. Wind noise is well controlled even when driving at triple-digit speeds.

Mileage & Fuel Economy

The Kodiaq 2.0 TSI engine with the DSG automatic has an ARAI rating of 14.86 km/l which is an increase of more than 2 km/l over the outgoing car. However, we would expect 10 km/l or less in the city, depending on traffic density. It must be remembered that turbo-petrol engines are sensitive to throttle input and if you drive it hard, the fuel gauge will drop much faster. The Kodiaq's fuel tank capacity is 62 litres - 4 litres more than the 1st-gen car.

Skoda has equipped the Kodiaq with an idling start-stop system, which should help the fuel economy. While this system works seamlessly, we found it a little too intrusive for our liking.

Ride Comfort

The Kodiaq has a MacPherson strut suspension at the front and a multi-link setup at the rear. The overall ride quality is compliant. Low-speed comfort can be termed as good, but not great. There is an underlying firmness that is felt on sharp bumps & broken roads. The setup handles small potholes & irregularities nicely, although medium-sized bumps can be felt in the cabin. While first and second-row passengers will not
really complain, those in the already uncomfortable third row will certainly find the ride quality poor.

On the open road, the Kodiaq rides flat. While most bumps and irregularities on the road are flattened nicely, larger bumps can be felt inside the cabin. The Kodiaq rides on the same tyre size as before - 235/55 R18.

Handling & Dynamics

As mentioned earlier, the monocoque-based Kodiaq is very car-like to drive, unlike body-on-frame SUVs. High-speed stability is excellent and the handling is sorted. The Hankook Ventus tyres provide sufficient grip which helps the Kodiaq to hold its line through curves. On twisty roads, the car won't feel unstable at any point in time. There is a little body roll, but it's nothing unsettling.

Steering

The Kodiaq comes with electric power steering which is very light to operate at slow and parking speeds. This makes the car easy to drive in the city. At highway speeds, the steering weighs up, but not as much as enthusiasts would like. While the steering is precise and direct, like most EPS units, the feedback isn't great.

Braking

The Kodiaq comes with disc brakes on all wheels. The stopping capability of the Kodiaq is excellent & confidence-inspiring. On hard braking, the vehicle comes to a standstill quickly and without any drama.